---
layout: post
title: "IOAA Canadian team!"
date: 2021-06-06
categories: physics astronomy
---

During the month of May, I participated in the Canadian Astronomical Olympiad.
The problems were challenging and engaging, and fortunately for me, I placed high enough to be selected for the Canadian IOAA team!

## What's the IOAA?

The IOAA is the International Olympiad on Astronomy and Astrophysics.
It's one of 17 ordinarily recognized International Science Olympiads, and it's a competition testing the astronomy and physics knowledge of participants, with teams of students from dozens of countries around the world being selected to compete.
The Canadian Astronomical Olympiad is used to select for the Canadian IOAA team, and I placed high enough out of all the participants to be selected for the team.

This year, the IOAA was meant to be held in Bogotá, Columbia, but unfortunately it looks like the competition is most likely going to proceed online this year.
However, it's scheduled for November of 2021 - it's possible that circumstances could change between now and then.
We just have to hope and get vaccinated! 🙏

## Some thanks

There's a few people I'd like to thank for making this achievement possible.
* Dr. Vera Zagainova, the Canadian coordinator of the International Astronomical Olympiads, for organizing the Canadian competition.
* My physics teachers, Dr. Timothy Leung, Dr. Brett Teeple and Dr. Michael Horbatsch. Dr. Leung was my first physics teacher at the Olympiads school, who got me interested in physics as a whole, while Dr. Teeple and Dr. Horbatsch taught me contest and Olympiad-level physics. Dr. Horbatsch also taught the astronomy course that I took after the cancellation of the major Canadian physics competition, the CAP Prize Exam, which was a major factor in my preparation for the Canadian Astronomical Olympiad this year.
* Joey Zou, my classmate both in my day school and at the Olympiads school, and who was also selected for this year's IOAA team. He is crazy smart and competent at basically everything he touches, and has served as a major source of motivation in my studies. I aspire to someday reach his level of skill in my own intellectual pursuits.

I plan on sharing a writeup of solutions to the problems for this year. Expect this later, once I finish up with my AP exams for this year. Don't hold me to that, though!