---
layout: post
usemathjax: true
title: "Cool Math Problem: OMO Fall 2012 Q12"
date: 2020-05-24
categories: math
---

This is a pretty cool problem that a friend showed me. It looks harder than it is (which is good for me, because I'm not actually that good at math), and I think the solution is interesting for its simplicity. It's question 12 from the OMO Fall 2012 contest. Check out the problems from that season's OMO [here](http://internetolympiad.org/archive/OMOFall12/OMOFall12Probs.pdf), and check out the OMO in general [here.](http://internetolympiad.org/)

Let $a_1,a_2,...$ be a sequence defined by $a_1 = 1$ and for $n \geq 1, a_{n+1} = \sqrt{a^{2}_{n} - 2a_n + 3} + 1$. Find $a_{513}$.

Pretty interesting, huh? Let's dive into it.

Where do we start? Let's try just evaluating a few terms of the squence first.

We are given that $a_1 = 1$, so

$$\begin{eqnarray} 
a_2 &=& \sqrt{a^{2}_{1} - 2a_1 + 3} + 1      \nonumber \\
  &=& \sqrt{1^{2} - 2(1) + 3} + 1 \nonumber \\
  &=& \sqrt{1 - 2 + 3} + 1 \nonumber \\
  &=& \sqrt{2} + 1 \nonumber
\end{eqnarray}$$

We can use $a_2$ to find $a_3$.

$$\begin{eqnarray} 
a_3 &=& \sqrt{a^{2}_{2} - 2a_2 + 3} + 1      \nonumber \\
  &=& \sqrt{(\sqrt{2} + 1)^{2} - 2(\sqrt{2} + 1) + 3} + 1 \nonumber \\
  &=& \sqrt{2 + 2\sqrt{2} + 1 - 2\sqrt{2} - 2 + 3} + 1 \nonumber \\
  &=& \sqrt{4} + 1 \nonumber \\
  &=& 2 + 1 \nonumber \\
  &=& 3 \nonumber
\end{eqnarray}$$

Similarly, we can use $a_3$ to find $a_4$.

$$\begin{eqnarray} 
a_4 &=& \sqrt{a^{2}_{3} - 2a_3 + 3} + 1      \nonumber \\
  &=& \sqrt{3^{2} - 2(3) + 3} + 1 \nonumber \\
  &=& \sqrt{9 - 6 + 3} + 1 \nonumber \\
  &=& \sqrt{6} + 1 \nonumber
\end{eqnarray}$$

Let's stop right here. What do you notice about these numbers? If we leave $a_3$ as $\sqrt{4} + 1$, it will be immediately apparent.

$$\begin{eqnarray}
a_1 &=& 1 = \sqrt{0} + 1 \nonumber \\
a_2 &=& \sqrt{2} + 1 \nonumber \\
a_3 &=& \sqrt{4} + 1 \nonumber \\
a_4 &=& \sqrt{6} + 1 \nonumber
\end{eqnarray}$$

There's a pattern! For $n \geq 1$, $a_n = \sqrt{2n-2} + 1$. You can evaluate $a_5$ and $a_6$ and $a_7$ and beyond and you will find that this pattern continues.

So to answer the question, 

$$\begin{eqnarray}
a_{513} &=& \sqrt{2(513) - 2} + 1 \nonumber \\
   &=& \sqrt{1026 - 2} + 1 \nonumber \\
   &=& \sqrt{1024} + 1 \nonumber \\
   &=& 32 + 1 \nonumber \\
   &=& 33 \blacksquare \nonumber
\end{eqnarray}$$



