---
title: "IOAA 2021 competition and results"
tags: physics astronomy
categories: Science Events
---

I competed for Team Canada in the 14th International Olympiad on Astronomy and Astrophysics from November 14th to November 21st. The event was synchronously held online, and so our team gathered in a tutoring center to write the examinations with remote proctoring.

## Results

Our results this year were good.

- I won a bronze medal along with Joey and Victor.
- Daniel won a gold medal!
- We also came in **first place** in the team competition amongst every country that competed!
    - No country apart from Canada has won the team competition twice before: the Canadian team has previously won the team competition at the 8th IOAA in Romania.

## Notable events

### Time zone issues

Each of the examinations during the olympiad was held at around 9:00AM or 10:00AM UTC. Unfortunately, due to the competition beind held synchronously online and the nature of our time zone, we wrote the exams very early in the morning on each day of competition, often at 5:00AM or 6:00AM local time.

### The solar round

The synchronous online format also caused many technical issues. Certain exam sections were extended due to connections issues with the remote camera proctoring. The most impactful issue, though, arose during the solar data analysis round.

The solar data analysis exam was based on solar data captured and made available over the internet through various tools. The organizing committee decided that as part of the examination, we were to use one such tool, JHelioviewer, to view and analyze the required solar imagery.

Unfortunately, JHelioviewer relied upon a very small amount of servers hosted at various universities for its solar data and images, and during the competition, the hundreds of competitors attempting to access the same images from the same servers all at once was simply too much load.

After the issues began, the organizing committee instructed us to use a web-based service to view the solar images. Unfortunately, the web app pulled from the **exact same servers** for its solar images, and the issues persisted. The round was ultimately extended for quite a long time to accomodate for the many issues that students had with image access.