---
title: "IOAA 2022 competition and results"
tags: physics astronomy
categories: Science Events
---

This summer, I travelled to compete in the 15th International Olympiad on Astronomy and Astrophysics, hosted at Kutaisi International University in Georgia from August 14th to August 22nd. This was my first in-person appearance at an international olympiad, and it was an amazing experience overall.

## Results

While my individual results did not improve, our team as a whole performed amazingly this year.

- I won an Honourable Mention.
- Alex won a bronze medal!
- Connor and Zander won silver medals!
- Harry won a special observational astronomy award!
- Daniel won a gold medal and the Best Data Analysis award!

Unfortunately, the weather conditions and limited schedule for this year's IOAA led to the team competition being cancelled to accomodate for an alternate observation round.

## Notable events

### IOAA of surprises

During the closing ceremony, the currently secretary of the IOAA, Aniket Sule, remarked that it had been an "IOAA of surprises." I would be inclined to agree.

- This year's problemset was one of the hardest IOAA problemsets yet, which the international board had not expected.
- Kyiv, Ukraine was supposed to be this year's host city, and it was a surprise that the olympiad was even able to run in-person on such short notice after the Russian invasion.
- Iran had always performed fairly well, but this year the Iranian teams (one primary team and one guest team of 5 people each) won **9 gold and 1 silver medal**. This was an unprecedented result.

### Unfavourable weather

Weather conditions in Kutaisi resulted in the cancellation of both night sky observation attempts, and an alternate daytime observation task was drafted for the practical observation portion of the exam. This also meant that the team competition portion was completely removed, to make space in the schedule for the new observation sections.

Ironically, the skies on every other night of the olympiad were fairly clear and quite good for observation. Even on the late-night bus ride back to Tbilisi International Airport, we were able to spot stars and planets that were completely obscured on the planned observation round days.

### COVID infections

Most of Team Canada, including me, travelled together to Tbilisi two days in advance of the olympiad, due to scheduling on a flight that was much cheaper, as well as to allow us to adjust to the timezone before the competition. During this time, one of our team members tested positive for COVID and had symptoms: luckily, none of the rest of the students or our team leader tested positive. However, the team member that did test positive had to isolate in the hotel in Tbilisi, and remained there for the duration of the olympiad without competing.

Afterwards, though, news came out that several team leaders and students had tested positive after the olympiad. One other team member and myself were both randomly selected for mandatory COVID testing when we returned to Canada, and unfortunately our team leader and another team member tested positive for COVID and presented symptoms.